Recently, I've been thinking about maps as tools for artistic creation and exploration. Transformative map-making as a creative goal. I'm not talking about the kind of map that traces a coastline. Maps, in this context, is just a way of making connections.

Digital biophilia has been an anchor point in my generative explorations. I incorporate the idea of nature, rocks, plants, fields, life, and landscapes, but I try to not think in terms of representations/replicas of the real counterparts. Instead, I want to derive new maps, explore new ways of seeing and contextualizing well-known natural elements--making new maps. Virtual landscapes that don't try to emulate the real world. 

I believe the idea of "true forms" is ingrained in us. The idea that things (objects, processes, structures) *should* be a certain way, or be used in a certain way. That it's possible to deviate from "the correct". Getting away from this too. Should be no secret that I've been thinking about [Deleuze](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iDVKrbM5MIQ).

I haven't read Deleuze. I've only been exposed through memes, drunk discussions with friends, and short youtube videos. My view of his philosophy might be riddled with misconceptions. This doesn't matter to me. I enjoy the fragments this mythological meme creature has expressed. There's no true form of a philosophy either--simplified derivations of incomprehensible ideas might be more valuable to me anyway. This way of engaging might even be in line with a Deleuzean mode of thought. I just want to play, bathe in culture, and make up something new.

Most days, I don't consider these things very deeply. I'm writing this confusing text to sort out vague ideas and form a feedback loop: I'd like to think more about these things and how they relate to my art and life, so I write, try to mull a bit, and keep tinkering, all on repeat. Trying to make art like maps: connect fragments, combine ideas, process old works. Guess this is true (and even obvious) for many, but consciously typing these words enforces this way of thinking, and makes a little sense of it.