The [biophilia hypothesis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biophilia) seems to me obviously true. Cities all over the world leave space for trees and bushes. Most houses have gardens. Most homes care for indoor plants. Natural scenes have always been depicted in art, even in the digital age. Algorithmic/generative art often replicates or simulates biological systems. AI artists envision new creatures and fantastic landscapes. Our laptops have wallpapers of hills, canopies, or cute animals. Nature ASMR calms us down. We head out for forest bathing and far-away wilderness retreats. 

We're inherently attracted to other living beings and environments. Maybe we instinctively understand that a flourishing landscape implies survivability. The rules of the game are vastly different in industrial society, but instincts haven't changed.

I'm curious about how our relationship with other living beings/systems will develop in the digital age. As we spend more time in digital spaces, is it possible to satiate biophilic needs in a meaningful way? I'm not suggesting we should strive to replace the real experience, or that we even could, but since we're here, anyway, in front of screens, maybe we could adapt our digital spaces to fit instinctive desires. I don't know how that would look, exactly. What is a digital forest bath?

(Biophilic design is a concept within architecture. Perhaps it should be in web- and software design as well.)

Recently, I've started exploring digital art that aesthetically approaches biological systems. I'm mostly trying to map out my own instincts and relationships by creating digital views of nature and synthetic landscapes. The goal is to build a personal ecosystem.

Related to this, I've grown interested in documentation: how we present data, especially biological data. Biology is one of the scientific disciplines that heavily relies on documentation and categorization of already established systems. Species are recorded, families are mapped out, histories are established, and the results are presented in books, grids, and trees. Natural structures sometimes help us present gathered data. Think biology books, bird books, bug books (which those of us born before the 21st century like have been exposed to). 

I'm planning to create a sort of canvas. A place for images, interactive 3D sketches, pattern studies, photographs, palettes, notes, gradients, whatever. A map of my digital studies joined together as a webpage, canvas, collage, or zine. Organic, semi-structured documentation. I think something interesting happens when art is presented in a series or a space, digital or physical. The space becomes the artwork, growing and changing as more things are added, morphed, or removed. There's a longevity to this format.